README.md, before:

init

example board
|r c| 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 0 | B | R | Y | B | B |
| 1 | Y | R | G | G | R |
| 2 | G | G | B | R | Y |
| 3 | Y | Y | R | B | R |
| 4 | B | R | B | G | B |

## or instead of Bitmask approach let's go with 2D array with floating point storage...

1 for vertical, .1 for horizontal
- the existing color is 1.1
- for each vertical same consecutive color +1
- for each horizontal same consecutive color +.1

Or instead of floats we can also go with int...
- at first it seemed that 2 digits may not be enough..
- however there should be a case where 9+ horizontal hit, regardless of the grid size...
  - well I definitely hope so lol

for blue example float storage 
|r c|  0  |  1  |  2  |  3  |  4  |
|---|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|
| 0 | 1.1 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 1.2 | 1.1 |
| 1 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 2 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 1.1 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 3 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 1.1 | 0.0 |
| 4 | 1.1 | 0.0 | 1.1 | 0.0 | 1.1 |

for green example float storage 
|r c|  0  |  1  |  2  |  3  |  4  |
|---|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|
| 0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 1 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 1.2 | 1.1 | 0.0 |
| 2 | 1.2 | 1.1 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 3 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 4 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 1.1 | 0.0 |

### now the questions are...
-  how to detect T, L square matches?
-  how to highlight a possible move?

#### totally unrelated question... How is this different that brute force checking?.. I mean I'm already looking at every possible tile...
But there are issues with both approaches.. Like if I go with bitwise and let's say I want to look at 'T' shape match, I would need the all possible 3x3 subset of 5x5 grid...
I mean yeah it could be optimized with something like "only check the most matched subsets" however will be faster than just brute forcing?

~~_Please let me do backend 🙏 I don't like the Quake III's "evil flaoting point bit hack".. because I totally agree with the next comment of that code..._~~

for template example float storage 
|r c|  0  |  1  |  2  |  3  |  4  |
|---|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|
| 0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 1 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 2 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 3 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 4 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |

## Bitmask approach

Example Board Bitmask:
|r c| 0    | 1    | 2    | 3    | 4    |
|---|------|------|------|------|------|
| 0 | 0001 | 0010 | 0100 | 0001 | 0001 |
| 1 | 0100 | 0010 | 1000 | 1000 | 0010 |
| 2 | 1000 | 1000 | 0001 | 0010 | 0100 |
| 3 | 0100 | 0100 | 0010 | 0001 | 0010 |
| 4 | 0001 | 0010 | 0001 | 1000 | 0001 |

```
int wholeGrid = 0b 0001 0010 0100 0001 0001 0100 0010 1000 1000 0010 1000 1000 0001 0010 0100 0100 0100 0010 0001 0010 0001 0010 0001 1000 0001
```

I know this is not how it should look but gotta start from somewhere

Example Match Patterns:

horizontal 3:
| b | b | b | b | b |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 |

T shape:
| b | b | b |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | 1 | 1 |
| 0 | 1 | 0 |
| 0 | 1 | 0 |

Commit message:

add(idea): maybe focus on "not matching" cases

README.md, after:

init

example board
|r c| 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| 0 | B | R | Y | B | B |
| 1 | Y | R | G | G | R |
| 2 | G | G | B | R | Y |
| 3 | Y | Y | R | B | R |
| 4 | B | R | B | G | B |

## or instead of Bitmask approach let's go with 2D array with floating point storage...

1 for vertical, .1 for horizontal
- the existing color is 1.1
- for each vertical same consecutive color +1
- for each horizontal same consecutive color +.1

Or instead of floats we can also go with int...
- at first it seemed that 2 digits may not be enough..
- however there should be a case where 9+ horizontal hit, regardless of the grid size...
  - well I definitely hope so lol

for blue example float storage 
|r c|  0  |  1  |  2  |  3  |  4  |
|---|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|
| 0 | 1.1 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 1.2 | 1.1 |
| 1 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 2 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 1.1 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 3 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 1.1 | 0.0 |
| 4 | 1.1 | 0.0 | 1.1 | 0.0 | 1.1 |

for green example float storage 
|r c|  0  |  1  |  2  |  3  |  4  |
|---|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|
| 0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 1 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 1.2 | 1.1 | 0.0 |
| 2 | 1.2 | 1.1 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 3 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 4 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 1.1 | 0.0 |

### now the questions are...
-  how to detect T, L square matches?
-  how to highlight a possible move?

#### totally unrelated question... How is this different that brute force checking?.. I mean I'm already looking at every possible tile...
But there are issues with both approaches.. Like if I go with bitwise and let's say I want to look at 'T' shape match, I would need the all possible 3x3 subset of 5x5 grid...
I mean yeah it could be optimized with something like "only check the most matched subsets" however will be faster than just brute forcing?

Or maybe just maybe instead of trying to find all of the possible matches we can just find "not matches" and destroy everything else...
- that also explains why in match-3 games when the square match happens in the following case, game destroys 5 gems...

|r c| 0 | 1 | 2 |
|---|---|---|---|
| 0 | 🔷 | 🔷 | X |
| 1 | 🔷 | 🔷 | X |
| 2 | X | 🔷 | X |



~~_Please let me do backend 🙏 I don't like the Quake III's "evil flaoting point bit hack".. because I totally agree with the next comment of that code..._~~

for template example float storage 
|r c|  0  |  1  |  2  |  3  |  4  |
|---|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|
| 0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 1 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 2 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 3 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |
| 4 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 | 0.0 |

## Bitmask approach

Example Board Bitmask:
|r c| 0    | 1    | 2    | 3    | 4    |
|---|------|------|------|------|------|
| 0 | 0001 | 0010 | 0100 | 0001 | 0001 |
| 1 | 0100 | 0010 | 1000 | 1000 | 0010 |
| 2 | 1000 | 1000 | 0001 | 0010 | 0100 |
| 3 | 0100 | 0100 | 0010 | 0001 | 0010 |
| 4 | 0001 | 0010 | 0001 | 1000 | 0001 |

```
int wholeGrid = 0b 0001 0010 0100 0001 0001 0100 0010 1000 1000 0010 1000 1000 0001 0010 0100 0100 0100 0010 0001 0010 0001 0010 0001 1000 0001
```

I know this is not how it should look but gotta start from somewhere

Example Match Patterns:

horizontal 3:
| b | b | b | b | b |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| 1 | 1 | 1 | 0 | 0 |

T shape:
| b | b | b |
|---|---|---|
| 1 | 1 | 1 |
| 0 | 1 | 0 |
| 0 | 1 | 0 |
